What are syntax-trees? #flashcard #IADS #ContextFreeLanguagesAndGrammars
	Syntax trees are structures that help us understand the meaning of language. They describe the order and logic behind the sequence of words.

---
What are the parts of a syntax tree? #flashcard #IADS #ContextFreeLanguagesAndGrammars 
	There are the terminals the actual symbols and words that make up any phrase in the language. Then there are the non-terminals that make up the structure behind the words. The non-terminals much have have children in a valid phrase.

---
What are the two types of language? #flashcard #IADS #ContextFreeLanguagesAndGrammars
	These are natural the languages make by people naturally and randomly, then there are artificial the ones designed like programming languages.

---
What are the parts of a language? #flashcard #IADS #ContextFreeLanguagesAndGrammars 
	Languages are made out of their terminals the actual parts of the language that make up the texts. Then there are the non-terminals which describe the deep down structure of the language. We then have the rules that describe what non-terminals and terminals non-terminals must be expanded to. There is also a set of possible non-terminals we can start from.

---
What are proper and improper texts in terms of language?  #flashcard #IADS #ContextFreeLanguagesAndGrammars 
	A proper text is one that has not non-terminal nodes that is all the non-terminals have been expanded to become terminal nodes. A improper text still has non-terminals so isn't valid under the rules of the language.

---
How can we build a proper text from a language? #flashcard #IADS #ContextFreeLanguagesAndGrammars 
	We start from a non-terminal and expand it following the rules, we can continue this until we have expanded all non-terminals at which point we have a sequence of terminals which in our text.

---
What is structural ambiguity? #flashcard #IADS #ContextFreeLanguagesAndGrammars
	Structural ambiguity is the idea that we can have the same text generated by multiple different syntax trees hence the structure of the text is ambiguous.

---
What is the mathematical definition of a context free grammar? #question 
	A context free grammar has 4 parts
	$\Sigma$ the set of terminals in the language
	N the set of non-terminals in the grammar
	S a choice of start symbols (non-terminals)
	P a finite set of productions taking a terminal to some set of terminals and non-terminals in the superset of them.

---
What is a sentential form? #flashcard #IADS #ContextFreeLanguagesAndGrammars
	A sentential form is a text made out of both terminals and non-terminals. Mathematically it is any derivable sequence of terminals and non-terminals.

---
What is the definition of a language relative to its grammars and sentential forms? #flashcard #IADS #ContextFreeLanguagesAndGrammars 
	A language is the subset of all the sentential forms that can be produced by the grammar of a language made out of only terminals.

---
What does it mean for a grammar be context free? #flashcard #IADS #ContextFreeLanguagesAndGrammars 
	This means the production rules only care about the current non-terminal they are expanding and non of the context or position of it relative to other non-terminals. The context of the non-terminal doesn't matter. In a context-sensitive grammar the productions also depend on the position of the node being expanded.

---
